Steps of our analysis After forward
selection, we applied backward selection,
which confirmed that most of the
predictive features came from 2007 to
2022.
These helped simplify our model while
keeping it stable and interpretable.
Transformation Box Cox for strictly
positive data Slike 2007 and 2008 and
Tukey Power for 2017 to 2019.
Box Cox comprised extreme values making
the histogram more balanced,
while Tukey Power handle zero negative values
smoothly reducing the heavy right tails.
These transformations made our data set
more normally distributed and improve the
performance of PCA and regression models.
Finally,
we reviewed the CPI data set dictionary
to
validate common meaning and ensure our
selected features aligned with real
economic indicators. In short,
backward selection and
power transformations together enhance
interpretability, reduce noise,
and revealed cleaner patterns in Canada's
inflation trends.